# Supplementary Tables
* **Table S1. Genomes used for ISCompare evaluation**
* **Table S2. SurroundingLen parameter optimization.** Sheet 1, results of the comparison of *E. coli* K-12 substr. MG1655 with an artificial genome of the same strain containing 100 IS*3*0 random insertions. Sheet 2, results of the comparison using *E. meliloti* strain 1021 as reference genome and an artificial *E. meliloti* 2011 genome with 100 IS*Rm5* random insertions as query. Sheet 3, Sensitivity and precision analysis. TP, true positives; FP, false positives; FN, false negatives. * indicate values manually found by inspecting the VD reports. 
* **Table S3. ISCompare evaluation using 3,000 random IS*30* insertions.** Sheet 1: Statistical analysis. Sheet 2: Location of 3,000 randomly inserted IS*30*. Set 1. Sheet 3: ISCompare results using a compilation of ISs from ISFinder database and the randomly inserted IS*30* set 1. Sheet 4: Location of 3,000 randomly inserted IS*30*. Set 2. Sheet 5: ISCompare results using IS*30* as query IS and the randomly inserted IS*30* set 2. TP, true positives; FP, false positives; FN, false negatives. * indicate values manually found by inspecting the VD reports.  
* **Table S4. Analysis of differentially located ISs on *P. aeruginosa* strains.** Sheet 1: ISCompare result analysis. TP, true positives; FP, false positives; FN, false negatives. * indicate values manually found by inspecting the VD reports. TP-ALL and FP-ALL indicate the total number of TP or FP detected. Sheet 2: ANIb and DDH results.
* **Table S5. Analysis of differentially located ISs on *E. meliloti* strains.** Sheet 1: ISCompare results summary. TP, true positives; FP, false positives; FN, false negatives. * indicate values manually found by inspecting the VD reports. TP-ALL and FP-ALL indicate the total number of TP or FP detected. Sheet 2: ANIb calculated using ANI matrix calculator server. Sheet 3: dDDH results from http://ggdc.dsmz.de/ggdc.php.
* **Table S6. Comparison of ISCompare results using the normal vs the Shift mode (-S).** A comparison of DLIS in *E. meliloti* 1021 and GR4 strains was done using ISCompare with -S option set to 5,000 nucleotides. Green shading indicates new DLIS found in the -S mode. Red shading indicates TP DLIS that were incorrectly detected by the -S mode.
* **Table S7. Comparison of ISCompare and ISSeeker using *E. meliloti* genomes.** *E. meliloti* 1021 was used as reference, and compared to GR4 and U1022 strains as queries. In the case of GR4 strain, the -S option was also evaluated. As ISSeeker only can analyse one IS at a time, only IS*Rm2011-2* location was analyzed using both programs. Sheet 1: ISCompare vs ISSeeker results summary. Sheet 2: ISSeeker, 1021 vs GR4 results. Sheet 3: ISCompare,  1021 vs GR4 results. Sheet 4: ISCompare, 1021 vs GR4 results with -S 5000 setting. Sheet 5: ISSeeker, 1021 vs USDA1022 results. Sheet 6: ISCompare, 1021 vs USDA1022 results. Sheet 7: ISCompare,  1021 vs USDA1022 results with -S 5000 setting.
* **Table S8. Comparison of ISCompare and ISSeeker using *P. aeruginosa* genomes.** Sheet 1: ISCompare vs ISSeeker results summary. Sheet 2: ISSeeker results for all the analyzed P. aeruginosa strains. Sheet 3:  results for all the analyzed *P. aeruginosa* strains.
* **Table S9. Comparison of *B. pertussis* TOHAMA I with strains I127, J299 and J412 containing a IS481 insertion on the pertactin autotransporter gene.** Sheet 1: Summary. Sheet 2: Results of *B. pertussis* TOHAMA I vs I127 comparison using ISCompare. Sheet 3: Results of *B. pertussis* TOHAMA I vs J299 comparison using ISCompare. Sheet 4: Results of *B. pertussis* TOHAMA I vs J412 comparison using ISCompare.  
  
# Supplementary Files
* ContigBlastHit.pm; Supplementary material, file S1.
